# Chapter 1: Introduction to Statistics

## Where You've Been

You are already familiar with many of the practices of statistics, such as taking surveys, collecting data, and describing populations. What you may not know is that collecting accurate statistical data is often difficult and costly. Consider, for instance, the monumental task of counting and describing the entire population of the United States. If you were in charge of such a census, how would you do it? How would you ensure that your results are accurate? These and many more concerns are the responsibility of the United States Census Bureau, which conducts the census every decade.

## Where You're Going

In Chapter 1, you will be introduced to the basic concepts and goals of statistics. For instance, statistics were used to construct graphs showing the fastest growing U.S. cities (population over 100,000) in 2008 by percent increase in population, U.S. cities with the largest numerical increases in population, and the regions where the cities are located.

For the 2010 Census, the Census Bureau sent short forms to every household. Short forms ask all members of every household such things as their gender, age, race, and ethnicity. Previously, a long form, which covered additional topics, was sent to about 17% of the population. But for the first time since 1940, the long form is being replaced by the American Community Survey, which will survey about 3 million households a year throughout the decade. These 3 million households will form a sample. In this course, you will learn how the data collected from a sample are used to infer characteristics about the entire population.
